So since we're going to be talking
about application localization,
we're going to do a
presentation in French today.
OK, just kidding,
but we have some Irish people.
All right,
I'd like to welcome you to session 129,
Mac OS X Application Localization.
Last year,
we talked a lot about how you're
going to be able to localize
your application on Mac OS X.
We talked about this
new bundle mechanism,
which is going to make your
life easier to ship one
application in several languages.
We talked about Appleglot 3.
And I think this session will
cover actually how you're going
to be able to do the real work.
This year,
we have the whole solution for you.
And tonight, going back to your hotel,
you'll be able to start actually
localizing your application in French.
I'd like to introduce for this session
Chris Hansen,
who works in the RE here in Cupertino
and will talk about the advantages of
Mac OS X and the international issues.
Thank you.
[Transcript missing]
So all these international
technologies I've alluded to,
like Unicode for text
rendering and font management,
so on,
they have other sessions here at WWDC,
and I encourage you to go to
those or review them for some
that have already occurred.
But I do want to touch on
one area in particular,
and that's application packaging and
how that enables multiple localization.
So you're all familiar with the
application packaging mechanism
that's used for application packaging.
I use that in quotes online.
It's a single file model.
You have a resource fork, a data fork.
Your HI is typically
in the resource fork.
Your executable is
typically in the data fork.
So this single file model enables
a couple of very nice things.
So one thing is it's very
simple for the users,
right?
So there's a single icon in the finder,
double clickable.
The user doesn't have to know
anything about the internals
of this file structure.
The other thing that's very nice about
this mechanism and this model is that,
the executables and the
resources are separate.
So we can localize an application,
and we don't have to recompile the code.
Typically,
we don't have to touch the executables.
So that's a very nice advantage
of this resource fork,
data fork split.
But this model does
have some shortcomings,
especially with modern applications.
So one issue we have is that there's
no support for multiple localizations
within a single resource fork.
So if you want to ship a French,
a German,
a Japanese version of your application,
well,
you have to create a new application.
So you have to create a new application.
So you have to create three
versions of that application,
localize the HI within those resources
to the appropriate target locale,
and then you, of course,
have duplicates of the executables
in each of those files.
So there's no support for
multiple localizations.
The other issue is that modern
applications have a lot of different
types of files that don't fit
very well into the resource fork,
resource sort of model.
So things like plug-ins and help files
and other things like that aren't easy to
shoehorn into the resource fork format.
So you typically... So you typically
have a bunch of loose files sitting
around that may be necessary or
useful for your application to run.
So that's the Mac OS 9 model, right?
So on Mac OS X,
applications are packaged as a set
of folders or folder hierarchy.
So there's a place within
this folder hierarchy for,
for example, your executables.
So you could, for example,
have multiple executables
within this application package
for different platforms.
So if you wanted your application
to launch a different executable,
if your user launched it on Mac OS 9,
you can do that.
There's also a place
within this application,
excuse me, this folder hierarchy for
multiple localizations.
So the language project or lproj folders
contain resources for different locales.
So you can recognize these language
project or lproj folders within
the application package by name,
by language name.
Sometimes they'll be
called like english.lproj,
french.lproj, japanese.lproj,
things like that.
You recognize those.
Chris Hansten, Jack Sampson, Mike Butler,
and Chris Halpern.
So you can recognize these language
project or lproj folders within
the application package by name,
by language name.
Sometimes they'll be
called like english.lproj,
french.lproj, japanese.lproj,
things like that.
You recognize those.
Chris Hansten, Jack Sampson, Mike Butler,
and Chris Halpern.
This mechanism also supports
an ISO naming convention.
And so for example,
you might have en.lproj,
which would be universal english content.
You might have ja.lproj, japanese,
universal japanese content.
And en.gb.lproj, which is british english
specific content.
That mechanism is a little
more flexible than the language
naming and is recommended.
There's also a place within this
application package for the other stuff.
So things like help files.
And plugins and package data,
other metadata can be
packaged together within this
application package structure.
So you see the point of this,
the purpose here is to group
all of these required resources
together into one folder hierarchy.
And yet still make it simple for
the user so they see one double
clickable application in the finder.
So let's look at a very
simplified example here.
This is extremely simplified.
I've left some things out of this.
But there's a simple app package.
You see at the top there,
mail.app or mail,
the user will still see a single
icons double clickable item.
If you actually expand
that in the file system,
you'll see there's various
folders under there and files.
And looking on the right side of it,
the Mac OS folder contains the
executable for the Mac OS platform.
You could potentially have other folders
there supporting other platforms.
If you look on the left side of it,
the resources folder.
There's a couple things there.
There's a myapp.rsrc.
Now that file contains global content.
Content that applies to all
of your localizations and
does not need to be localized.
So that might contain things like
icons or pictures or other things
that don't require localization.
The English L approach contains the
content that does require localization.
So for example, the localized.rsrc,
should say localized.rsrc,
would contain things that
do require localization.
Your strings, your layouts,
your other content that
should be localized on a per
locale or per language basis.
So the strength of this mechanism,
if I wanted to localize this
application into say French or German,
all I need to do is duplicate
the English L approach.
Name it appropriately.
So French L approach, German L approach,
etc.
And localize the content
within that L approach.
So I can use the localization
tools that will be discussed
to localize that content.
If I then put those L approaches
back within this application package,
as in this picture.
So I have a French L approach there,
a German L approach there.
The great thing about this is
that this application is now
localized and multilingualized.
So if the user that has this on
their system was running with
French as their preferred language,
let's say.
And they launch this app,
it will show the content that's
in the French L approach.
It will have a French UI.
And they decide to switch to German as
a preferred language or more likely
another user to multi-user system.
Another user logs on.
And they want to be running in German.
They launch Mail app.
It will be running in German.
Okay.
Very nice for the user.
So what have we learned in doing
these couple versions of the OS,
doing the multi-lingual,
that's helpful for you guys?
Well, there's really two main things.
One is to use this application
packaging mechanism.
This gives you a flexible
delivery mechanism.
So on the one hand,
you could potentially package
together multiple UIs within your
application with one executable
and deliver that in a single CD or
single deliverable to your users.
On the other hand,
if you don't want to do
that for whatever reason,
you could also deliver that
language later as an add-on,
a plug-in of some sort.
So you could, for example,
ship your application and version of your
application and then deliver a language
over the web as an add-in plug-in.
It's a separate folder.
All of this stuff can just be
plugged into your application
and will just start working.
The other nice thing about this is
it's very flexible for your users.
So many of your users may
want to run their application,
run their system,
with other languages than
English as their preferred language,
and they would like it if your
application responds to that.
and displays its UI in that language.
So the other thing we learned is
to use the Mac OS X international
support that's available.
Never forget when you're working on
your app that it is a multi-script,
multi-local,
and multi-lingual environment.
And use all of the international support,
the Unicode for text rendering,
the font management, MLTE,
all the different things.
There's other sessions that
you can look at on that.
Use those.
And if you do use those technologies,
then there's a lot of really cool
things you can do for your international
users in your application on Mac OS X.
So with that, I'd like to turn this
over to Jack Sampson,
who's our Localization
Tools Development Manager,
and he'll talk to you about
the Localization Tool side.
Thank you very much.
Thanks, Chris.
We are delighted to show you Apple's
very latest localization tools today,
namely Appleglot 3 and Monte.
Appleglot 3 is Apple's
incremental localization tool.
It supports incremental
localization for Classic,
Carbon, and Cocoa applications.
It uses the Monte API to access and
decompress resource type structured data.
Monte, which was announced at
last year's conference,
has been updated to support Appleglot
3's features and requirements.
But before we get into
the detail of Appleglot 3,
let's talk about the concept
of incremental localization.
What is it?
When we talk about
incremental localization,
we're talking about the reuse
of translations that have been
used in a previous version
of a particular application.
This assumes, of course,
that localizable elements in
the previous version are exactly
the same in the current version.
Nothing has changed.
Let's take an example.
Say I've developed Super Mega App 1.0.
It's brand new.
All the GUI are populated with
text strings which are in English.
As we've already heard from Chris,
Mac OS X applications are
inherently multilingual.
They can support multiple
language translations.
We can translate all the text strings
in version 1.0 into various languages.
And we can enclose them within
the application framework.
Now, I realize that SuperMegaApp,
I'd like to add some extra features.
Now, not everything has changed.
We would like to pull forward
automatically the localized elements that
have existed in the previous version.
This leaves us with just the work
of translating the changes that
have occurred in version 2.0.
This is the essence of
incremental localization.
Some of you may be familiar with
previous versions of Appleglot,
such as 2.4.
Appleglot 3 is completely new.
It has been designed and
written from the ground up.
It is based on the
Monte architecture and technology.
It supports a state machine
architecture and has a very
powerful extensible plugin system.
This is available to not just in-house
but also third-party developers.
But rather than talking
about Appleglot 3,
I'd like to hand this
presentation over to Mike Butler,
who is the principal engineer
and developer for Appleglot.
Thanks, Jack.
OK.
I'm going to talk to you
today about Appleglot 3.
And the easiest way for me to
do that is to actually work
through a couple of examples,
a couple of things you
normally do with it.
So some of the things you're going to
see as we work through these examples,
we're going to create a new environment.
And I'll explain a little
later what an environment is.
But if you've used Appleglot 2 before,
you'll see that the environment
is actually quite similar.
It's only some small changes.
And I'll point those out.
We'll show you how Appleglot figures out
where to pull the right information from.
We'll show you what we've done to
hopefully make it a little easier to use.
For example, we know that you
typically using Appleglot,
you're going to jump out into the finder,
jump back into Appleglot,
jump into your own application
that you're localizing,
maybe run a few tools,
come back into Appleglot.
We're trying to make it all much easier,
flow much better.
As Chris has explained,
OS X provides support for a
number of different locales
all within the one package.
So obviously,
Appleglot has to support this.
We'll show you how it does
it and how seamless it is.
We'll also take a look at
some of the support files that
Appleglot uses and produces.
And we'll show you what we've
done to hopefully make these
more accessible to other users or
other tools and other processes.
And finally,
we'll show you just incremental
localization and how it'll
work with packaged apps,
classic apps, funded apps, Cocoa, Carbon,
all the bits and pieces
you're going to find on OS X.
So I'm just going to go to demo now.
[Transcript missing]
I'm going to go and
create an environment.
Now, Appleglot deals with a
large number of files.
And most of these will
have very similar names.
And they'll only be just different
versions of the same file.
So we need to have a safe way of knowing
which file we want to pull information
from so we do it right and safely.
So I'll just close up that example there.
We use what's called an environment.
And basically,
it's a hierarchy of folders.
Each folder in this hierarchy
has its own specific job.
So when we put something in there,
we know that we can safely
deal with it a certain way.
So if I just open up
an environment there,
I'll show you what it
looks like in Appleglot.
[Transcript missing]
To create an environment,
we'll just go up to the tool menu,
choose Create Empty Environment,
And we'll pick where we want it.
So I'm just going to pick a new folder in
here and type in the name of our example.
Now I'm going to tell Appleglot
to populate that with all
the folders that we need.
So if I go and look
at that in the finder,
just the same place again.
WC, example environment,
we'll see there's all the
folders that is created.
Now as I said, most of these will be
familiar to you from Apiglat2.
Some are new,
like we have a temporary one
and we have a translators
folder then to support Monty.
But most of them as I said are
as you've seen with Apiglat2.
So this is my first time around,
I have a brand new application.
I need to produce a localised version.
So what I'm going
drop in those applications
that I want to localize.
Simply drop them into
the new base folder.
Now if I go and open that
environment with Appleglot,
So it's selected already.
Choose.
OK.
So you can see Appleglot here
is mimicking some of the folders
that you-- in the finder there.
So we have a new base, new loc, old base,
old loc.
And anything that's in those folders
will show up here in these columns.
So I true in disk copy
and mail into new base.
So they show up here
in the new base column.
Now, as Chris already mentioned,
we have support for multiple locales.
So previously with Appleglot,
you would have just run Appleglot,
put in your translations,
and whatever translations you put in,
well,
that meant it was for that language.
So if you did put in French translations,
we had a French version.
This time around,
you need to tell Appleglot what
locale you want to produce.
So if you look at the title here,
for our example environment here,
we have our base locale as English and
our target locale as French.
These are just defaults
from my preferences.
If I wanted to change them,
I just go up to the Tools menu,
choose Set Base Target Locales,
and I just pick a few.
I pick whatever I needed from here.
There's only a few here.
This is just in this preview release.
As we go forward,
we put in the rest of the locales.
So I'm just going to
stick with French here.
What I'm going to do is I'm
going to choose this copy here,
and I want to process that.
Now, there's a number of
files in the environment,
so I just want to tell Apple that
I just want to localize this copy.
So I just tick here, and as you can see,
it tells us that one item
is selected for processing.
Okay, so I'm just going to go ahead
and go to the Actions menu and
choose Generate Glossaries.
And Appleglot is going to start working.
So what Appleglot is doing now,
it's running through all
the different resources,
all the data that it can find,
looking to see if it can find any textual
information or localizable information,
pulling it out, and it's going to store
it in one of two places.
So if we have a translation available,
then it will get stored in what's
called an application dictionary.
If we have no translations available,
then the information will be stored
in what's called a work glossary.
This is our first time through,
so we shouldn't have any
translations available,
so everything should just
go into the work glossary.
Okay, this is going to take about
another 30 or 40 seconds.
So once we have our work glossary,
we can start working with that and
putting it in our translations.
Which should be any minute today.
So at the moment,
as you can see from the progress there,
what it's doing is it's reinserting
information into Nib files.
So it's at this Nib file stage
and putting information back in.
And as we've had no translations,
this might seem strange,
but what's really happening is even
though we have no translations,
we've still produced a localized version.
So this is still the
double clickable app here.
If we had translations,
what would happen is the
translations would be put in.
It'd still be a double clickable app.
When you ran it, you'd get your partially
localized application.
So if we just take a look at over here,
you can see that a work last
year was produced for this copy.
And we'll just have a look at that.
Now I know if you've
worked with Appleglot 2,
you're used to much
simpler work glossaries.
So this actually would look
quite daunting or complicated.
But if you also notice, it's an XML file.
So this opens up work glossaries to
numerous other tools that can read XML.
Or if you want to write your own tool,
you don't have to try and figure
out what Appleglot's format is.
You don't have to write
a parser for that.
You just use your own XML parser
that comes with the system,
and you gain instant access to the
work glossaries or any other files
that Appleglot produces in XML.
Also, being XML,
you can take advantage of
XML tools that are out there.
And as we go forward,
XML will become much more popular.
As it becomes more mature,
it will find its way into
all types of applications.
So your favorite text editor
will eventually have XML support.
So this text editor here
actually has some XML support.
I can go in and turn on what
it calls Syntax Styling.
Now if we look at that XML file again,
while it's still quite complicated,
it stands out more.
The information you want stands out more.
And you can tell it what way you
want the information to be displayed.
As we go forward,
you may produce something yourself
which will translate this XML into HTML.
You can view it that way and
maybe use backend scripts to
populate guesses or whatever.
So if we take a look
at this work glossary,
if you're used to Appleglot 2,
you'll be used to all the
information from one file
goes into one work glossary.
Now, we have a packaged app.
We have loads of different
files there inside the package.
So instead of having a separate
work glossary for each file,
we have all of the appropriate files,
all of the information from
all of the different files goes
into the one work glossary.
This makes it easier
for you to work with.
So if you can see here,
we have all our Info.plist information
has gone in here.
So we have the bundle name,
so we can change the
name of the application.
We also have some nibs here.
If you scroll down through,
you can see more nib files.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going
to change or enter some translations.
So if I pick a couple of easy ones,
we'll take the name of
the application itself.
So I'm not very good at French,
unfortunately.
So I'm just going to cheat and call it.
Follow the-- the funny
was always so easy.
OK, and one of the other-- like here,
the text that I'm entering that
I want to have-- the translated
text that I'm entering is
coming up in a different color.
It's a visual cue that I'm
typing in the right place.
You can do some much more strict things.
I believe a future version of this
application will not let you type inside
tags so that you can't damage the format.
Okay, let me pick something else.
Say, let me look for a window.
Something that'll pop up in the menu bar.
Okay, so again, cheat,
So all I'm going to do is save
that and go back into Appleglot.
Now if I go up to the Actions,
I can produce a finished version.
And it's very similar
to the Generate classes,
but this time it's going to go through,
turn away.
And it's going to do
the same stuff again.
It's going to try and pull out
all the information it can,
look, see if it has translations for it,
reinsert it, whatever.
Except this time around,
we're going to find two translations.
So there's going to be-- the
name-- the application name
is going to have fr.discopy.
And the window title will
come up as-- they'll have a
translation for our window.
So this time around,
not everything will appear
in the work glossary.
Only the things that need translations
go into the work glossary.
So the two files that we've-- or the two
translations that we've just entered,
they'll go into the
application dictionary.
So again, we're reinserting information
into the Nib files here.
It's just finishing up.
So when this is finished,
what we can do is we can
actually go and have a look and
see if our translations worked.
Okay, so it's done.
So what we can do now is we can
go to our system preferences.
Wait for it.
And it's over on this
window machine over there.
OK.
So now if I go to International.
choose French as my main language.
Click that.
With the wonders of Mac OS N technology,
I should be able to run this
copy here and see it in French,
or at least my version of French.
So there you have it.
This copy of the name was translated.
So as you noticed,
the information for the name of the
application came from the strings--
the Info.plist strings file.
And the name for the window came
from a completely separate nib file.
So as a translator, I wouldn't care.
It would all just be in the work class.
I'd do whatever I have to do,
and it would all just work.
The whole point of this version of
Appleglot is that it's supposed to
hide any complexities of OS X from you.
OK, so I'll just quit that.
So now we'll take a look at a
slightly more complicated example.
So if I open up another environment,
which has a few more files in it,
Okay,
so I have a whole bunch of files in here.
And I see I have new disk copy.
Okay, so I know I've just done disk copy.
So what I want to do is not have
to go reinsert and reenter those
translations that I've just done.
It takes too long to
enter those two strings.
Okay, so what I'm going to do is
I have my original versions here,
but I'm just going to copy over a whole
bunch of them as well at the same time.
So this is Olock,
so it goes in the Olock folder.
So these are previous localized
versions of certain applications.
Now if I look at my old base.
So we're going to copy all these
over to the old base folder.
And these are the old original
versions of the applications.
Now, if I look at that environment again,
now if I go back into Appleglot,
We should see there,
it's after automatically matching up all
those files that I'm after putting in.
So it knows that if it goes here,
it can find the previous
old address book.
And it knows if it goes here,
it can find the previous old
localized version of the address book.
So what we wanted to do with Appleglot,
we wanted to make it as
extensible as possible.
Why?
Did somebody say?
Sorry.
So what we did was we,
from the ground up,
we made it a plugin-based architecture.
And we didn't just leave
one section of a B plugin.
We tried to bring that philosophy
throughout the whole app.
So you can write plugins that will
provide services to Appleglot itself.
You can provide plugins that can
provide services to other plugins.
You can write plugins that can
process data that Appleglot
doesn't already process.
And you can write plugins
that just sit there,
watch all the data flying by, and say,
record information or maybe change
the behavior of certain plugins.
So the benefits of this are the
general benefits you get from plugins.
From our point of view,
we have quicker update time.
We don't have to turn Appleglot
again if something comes up,
if a feature comes up
that we hadn't thought of.
We maybe just do a plugin
and release that plugin.
It's much simpler.
For yourselves,
if a process that you have that
doesn't quite work with Appleglot
or Appleglot doesn't support it,
then there's the ability there
for you to write plugins.
If you've thought of writing plugins,
if you've come up with something
that you could write a plugin for,
then maybe somebody else could use it.
Maybe you could give it to them,
or maybe they've already done it,
so you can just take it from them.
Okay, so just a couple of examples of
the kind of plugins that we wrote.
The first one is the NibTool plugin,
and you've actually seen that
without really noticing it.
The NibTool plugin basically allows
Appleglot to process nib files,
which is what I did earlier.
And it's a good example of a plugin
because we were able to leverage from
work that was done by other people.
The interface builder team
had already written the tool,
the command line tool,
the Unix command line tool,
and that was able to go take a nib file
and the rest of the team.
- NibTool, do your wonder stuff there.
It puts out all the information,
and AppleGot goes along as normal.
And all the information still
ends up in the same place,
still ends up in the work glossary,
the glossary that you've seen
there and you normally work with.
So if you're just a translator,
everything that you want just
appears in the one place.
You don't have to worry about how
you would deal with nib files.
you would deal with classic apps.
Another kind of plugin
that we used was ResStats.
When we were developing Appleglot,
obviously we wanted to make
sure that we were hitting every
resource type we should be.
We also wanted to know if we were
pulling out all the information
out of those data types.
We wanted to know how
long it was taking us.
So we wrote a little plugin,
it's called ResStats,
and it just sits there and watches
all the information fly by.
And it just takes a few notes.
So at the end, then,
it just checks out a file and...
Basically, it just tells you, right,
you had 10 resources in there,
and they were blah.
And of those 10,
only two of them produced any
localizable information and entered
10 strings into the work glossary.
So you're able to see one
of the strange things,
or one of the enlightening things,
I suppose, was that we saw that maybe
just 10% of the resource types
that we were supporting had any
localizable information in it.
So 10% produced 90% of the
information that we were localizing.
So just by being able to produce a
small little plugin that sat there,
watched things go by,
we were able to find out
that sort of information.
And we were able to see that, yeah,
I'm looking at it in Resourcer here.
I can see 10 resources.
Yeah, Appleglot worked with 10 resources.
And I can see that there
was 10 strings in here.
Yeah, grand,
Appleglot worked with 10 strings.
So it was very handy for us.
So in a similar situation,
if you needed to check things,
or if you needed to add
something or watch something,
you can write plugins to do that.
At this point,
I was supposed to hand over to Kristian,
but we'll see.
So just before Kristian does come up,
I'll just tell you that Monte is a
core technology that Appleglot uses.
It's what allows us to access resources,
whether in the data file or in the
data fork or in the resource fork.
And it lets us do that pretty seamlessly.
So I'd just like to welcome
Kristian Walsh on stage to
talk to you about Monte.
So Monte is a technology that
we in Apple developed to deal
with structured binary data
types or resources to you and me.
And Appleglot uses Monte for its
Carbon and Classic resource support.
But one of the best things about Monte is
that we get full Unicode support.
Monte is entirely Unicode based.
So all the editing,
all the extraction of text,
it comes out of Monte in Unicode.
When we want to make a change,
it goes into Monte in Unicode.
Monte handles the conversion
of that text from Unicode to
whatever the native encoding is.
So for Classic applications,
when we ask for some text
to be set to Japanese,
Monte will handle the conversion from
that Japanese text to Shift JIS encoding
or whatever the Mac is using.
As part of this,
we also have data validation.
So that if we took the same
Japanese text and tried to
set it into a French resource,
we get an error saying that, well,
you've said that this resource is French.
That cannot encode
this particular stream,
so I'm not going to let you.
And doing things like this
prevents your editing tools from
corrupting the data you're editing,
which is an occasional cause of these
bugs that it takes weeks to track down.
Also, we tried to make Monte extensible.
Anyone who's had to deal with
frameworks and class libraries,
particularly power planters
is the most popular,
will find that they keep having
to rev the PPob translator.
Every time a new subtype comes along,
you've got to rev the
whole PPob translator,
which is quite big now.
But with Monte,
we've designed a system whereby we
just have to add the extra pieces,
just add what's changed,
and we can leverage on the
existing stuff we've done.
So it makes it very quick,
very easy to do this.
It also makes it easy
to control the changes.
But if you have a lot of templates,
and you still need them
for your own process,
we have a template conversion tool,
which will automatically convert the
ResEdit or Resourcer templates into
Monte translators suitable for Appleglot,
which is a great starting point
for you to get advantage of all the
features that Monte will offer you.
Okay, so I'm going to ask Jack Sampson
to come up and wrap up the session.
Thanks, Kristian.
Okay, we got there.
You have just seen, yes,
Apple's very latest localization
tools and technology in action.
You've seen the power of Appleglot 3.
and yes,
the very powerful Monte technology.
And all running on Mac OS X.
We've gone through incremental
localization of Classic,
Carbon, Cocoa.
We've leveraged previous translations.
We can give better efficiency
and accuracy of localization.
have been examples of the
scalability of Appleglot 3 with
its extensive plugin technology.
Mike has gone through the NibTool
plugin and the ResStats plugin.
All the files that Appleglot uses are
in XML format and have the capability
going forward even for XSL format.
You've seen the Monte translator,
which we've been able to update
quite easily using the PPOD resource.
Now that we know what Appleglot 3 is,
or does,
I'd like to take some time to talk
about what Appleglot 3 is not.
Appleglot 3 is not a
machine translation tool.
Neither does it support document
localization or multimedia localization.
If you're so inclined,
please feel free to write a plugin
which will interface with Appleglot
3 so that it can use already
well-established translation mechanisms.
At this venture, I'd like to hand the
presentation back to Xavier,
who will address the
very burning question,
where can we get Appleglot 3?
Xavier.
Okay, just a quick wrap up.
I'd like to remind you
that with Mac OS X,
we're shipping with several languages.
As Avi mentioned in his
presentation as well,
we just released a new
version for traditional,
simplified Chinese and the
rest of the European languages.
One out of two Macintoshes
are sold outside of the U.S.
So for you as a developer,
it's very important as well
to localize your application.
So of course,
French is one of these languages,
but don't forget Japan and China,
who are like, you know,
main markets now where
things are growing very fast.
We showed you in this presentation
that actually now we have the tools
for third parties for you to have
and localize your application,
support all these languages,
support application bundle,
and actually support whatever
needs you have as a third party.
So we saw that Monte is
very powerful because now,
you know, it was a nightmare to
translate before with like,
you know, resourcer or things like that,
things like PPOBs.
Well, with Monte,
you're going to be able to actually
write your own defined templates.
And Appleglot will take, like, you know,
advantage of all the plugins
you'll be able to write.
So I think I'm very happy about
the work that Jack's group
has been doing this last year.
It was very difficult to support many
platforms and many types of objects.
And believe me, it's very great to see
Appleglot 3 in action.
So when do I get Appleglot 3 and Monte?
Soon.
You'll get it soon.
And actually, we hope to post it on the
web probably next month.
Maybe before that.
But this is something that you'll
be able to download directly from
our website of developer.apple.com
in the international web page.
We have already posted
there some glossaries.
Some of the developers have
been asking about that.
Right now, we have support for French,
Italian, Spanish, German, and English,
of course.
We'll be adding
Japanese probably next week.
And we hope to have, of course,
simplified traditional Chinese,
Korean in the upcoming month.
So please, try to download the Monte SDK,
try to get your hands on Appleglot 3,
and of course,
try to write as many plugins
as you want to integrate in
your localization process.
Should you have any questions,
please don't hesitate to
contact me at xavier@apple.com.
We're more than happy to
show you the powerful Monte.
If you need to get your hands
on VSDK and you cannot find it,
please send me an email.